---
layout: post
title: "Basic Command Line in Windows"
subtitle: 'A quick and useful tool'
author: "Mike Lyou"
#header-style: text
header-img: "img/post-bg-matrix.jpg"
copyright-statement: CC BY-NC
catalog: true
tags:
  - Cmd
---

[查看中文版本（有配图）&rarr;](https://mikelyou.com/2020/07/10/basic-cmd-zh/)

This article briefly introduced the common usage of command line.
<!-- more -->


During the building of my blog, I encountered the **command line**. Though solved the tasks at that time, I know nearly nothing about the command line. So today I am going to figure out what the basic command line can do for me.


Due to huge workload and little importance, not grapghs to illustrate.

<!--
## Catalog
 {:.no_toc}

*  catalog
{:toc}
-->

## Introduction to command line

What is the command line?

The command line, appears as `cmd`, is a handful tool that let you communicate directly with computer. It can perform some tasks much quicker than normal ways, and sometimes is the only way, like when you launch the `jekyll` serve. And it is cool.

It looks like DOS, but has little to do with DOS.

## Access the command line

There are two ways to access the command line.

- **Method 1.** Press <kbd>Win</kbd> + <kbd>R</kbd> to open `Run` &rarr; type `cmd` and `Enter`.

- **Method 2.** Press <kbd>Win</kbd> to open `Start menu` &rarr; type `cmd` and click `Command Prompt` (here you can run as Admin).

And then you should see the window of `cmd.exe`.

------------

Now we have launched the `cmd.exe`, what can we do next?

Below I will introduce several things we can do with command lines.


## Common Commands about directories and files

Now we have launched the `cmd.exe`, what can we do next?

Below I will introduce several things we can do with command lines.

#### cd
By default, the `cmd.exe` is at directory of `C:\WINDOWS\system32` or `C:\Users\Username`. You can see it once you open the `cmd.exe`.

If we want to search files or run programs in another directory, we have to change the directory to there.

Use `cd NEW_PATH` to **change directory** to `NEW_PATH`.

If `NEW_PATH` is at a drive other than `C:`, assuming it is `E:`, we need to change drive before that.

```
E:              # change drive
cd E:\NEW_PATH  # change directory
```

You can see the directory changes at the begining of tht new lines that pops up.


#### dir
List all the files and sub-directories in current directory.

#### mkdir
Use `mkdir DIRNAME` to create a new directory named `DIRNAME`

#### rmdir
Use `rmdir DIRNAME` to remove directory named `DIRNAME`.

Only **empty directory** can be removed. Trying to remove a nonempty directory will generate an error message.

#### del

Use `del FILENAME.extension` to delete file named `FILENAME.extension`.

#### help
If you don't know what command is avaliable, type `help` to see all commands.


## Common commands about Windows systems

#### ping

Use `ping` command to check the responding time bwetween an IP and your computer.
```
ping mikelyou.com
ping 185.199.110.153  # IP of mikelyou.com
```

You can check the IP of an website by this way as well.

#### ipconfig

Use `ipconfig` to reveal many network data of your computer.

#### systeminfo

Use `systeminfo` to see information about your Windows system.

#### shutdown
I don't know where I can use these...
```
shutdown -s         # system will shutdown in 1 minute
shutdown -s -t 3600 # system will shutdown in 3600 seconds
shutdown -a         # cancel shutdown command
```

## Save commands as batch file

Save frequantly used command lines as batch file can free ourselves from typing the same words again and again. To do this, we just need to:

1. **Create a `.txt` file.**
2. **Write some commands and save.**
3. **Change the extension to `.bat`.**


Now we have created an batch file. **Double-click** it and it will run as command lines in the directory of this batch file.

For Example, I cerated a batch file with content as

```
E:
cd E:\GitHub\mikelyou.github.io
jekyll serve
```

And next time when I want to [launch the jekyll serve](https://mikelyou.com/2019/12/27/hello-world/#2-使用jekyll搭建本地服务器), I can simply double-click this batch file, rather than open the command line and type those long words.

## References

- [A Beginner’s Guide To The Windows Command Line](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/a-beginners-guide-to-the-windows-command-line/)
- [cmd应用基础-扫盲教程](https://lellansin.wordpress.com/2012/12/15/cmd应用基础-扫盲教程/)
- [好玩的CMD命令行~](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/28838517)

> This article is Mike Lyou's original work and may not be reproduced without permission.
